LEFTY(1)                 General Commands Manual                 LEFTY(1)

NAME
       lefty - A Programmable Graphics Editor
               可编程的图片编辑器

SYNOPSIS
       lefty [ options ] [ file ]

DESCRIPTION
       lefty  is  a two-view graphics editor for technical pictures. This
       editor has no hardwired knowledge about specific  picture  layouts
       or  editing  operations.   Each  picture is described by a program
       that contains functions to draw the picture and functions to  per‐
       form editing operations that are appropriate for the specific pic‐
       ture. Primitive user actions, like mouse and keyboard events,  are
       also  bound  to  functions  in this program. Besides the graphical
       view of the picture itself, the editor presents a textual view  of
       the  program  that  describes the picture. Programmability and the
       two-view interface allow the editor to handle a  variety  of  pic‐
       tures,  but are particularly useful for pictures used in technical
       contexts, e.g., graphs and trees. Also, lefty can communicate with
       other  processes.  This feature allows it to use existing tools to
       compute specific picture layouts and allows external processes  to
       use  the  editor  as  a front end to display their data structures
       graphically.

USAGE
       The file name is optional. It may be -, for reading from  standard
       input.  lefty uses two environment variables, LEFTYPATH and LEFTY‐
       OPTIONS.  LEFTYPATH is a colon separated list of directories. When
       lefty  tries  to  open a file, it searches that path for the file.
       When lefty tries to start up another process, it  searches  LEFTY‐
       PATH  first, then the standard PATH variable.  LEFTYOPTIONS can be
       used to set specific options. Options  specified  on  the  command
       line override options set through this variable.
       文件名是可选的.
       使用两个环境变量.
       LEFTYPATH: lefty打开文件时，会首先从该目录中寻找。启动其他程序时候
                  会优先从该路径中寻找，然后才是正常的PATH路径。
       LEFTOPTIONS: 用于指定特定选项，命令行中的选项会覆盖这个数值。

OPTIONS
       -x     Instructs the editor to exit after processing file.
              处理文件之后退出

       -e <expression>
              <expression> is parsed and executed.
	      表达式解析后执行

       -el <num>
              Set error reporting level. The default value is 0.  0 never
              prints any messages.  1 prints severe errors, such as  try‐
              ing  to  return from a non function.  2 is the most useful:
              it reports function calls that cannot be  executed,  either
              because  there  is no function, or because of argument mis‐
              matches.  3 also warns about bad variable names.  4,5  warn
              about  expressions that do not return a value. Only level 1
              messages are real errors. The rest arise from  legal  lefty
              statements, but may be caused by some logic errors.
	      设置告警级别

       -sd <num>
              Specifies how much of the stack to show, when an error mes‐
              sage is to be printed. The default value is 2.  With 0,  no
              part  of  the  stack  is  shown. With 1, only the top stack
              frame is printed. With 2, the full stack is printed.
	      设置显示的栈的数量

       -sb <num>
              Specifies how much of each function in the stack  to  show,
              when  an  error message is to be printed. The default value
              is 2.  With 0, no part of the function is  shown.  With  1,
              only the line around the error is printed. With 2, the full
              function body is printed.

       -df <string>
              Sets the default font. This font is  used  whenever  a  re‐
              quested  font cannot be found. The string must be a legal X
              font. If string is '', lefty will draw small boxes  instead
              of text.

       -ps <file>
              Specifies  a  default  file name for postscript files. This
              name is used when no name is specified in the  createwidget
              call. The default file name is out.ps.
	      设置postscript的默认文件名

       -V     Prints the version.
              输出版本号

       -?     Prints the usage and exits.
              输出用法，然后退出.

SEE ALSO
       lefty user guide.
       lefty用户指南

                                                                 LEFTY(1)
